imagine walking away from a
$300,000 deposit on a home you came here
for the truth so let me unveil that for
you we're looking at a time that has
been difficult for many there's no
question and interest rates play a vital
role in that why because this whole
monetary system is set up around debt in
fact money is born through debt and some
people still can't figure that out but
we've got to get our heads wrapped
around it and I know it's so difficult
myself included find it difficult to
understand what happened to the value of
money well that was gone a long time ago
in today's video I'm going to explain a
few things that have um you know been
unraveling as we speak it's a big
concern let me get into it first thing
you could see that Americans now need to
earn a record
$115,000 to afford a typical home that's
up more than 50% since 2020 and that's
shock talking right because you need to
make six figures just to own the average
home and that's not an average salary
it's not an average household income now
when we play in the averages of course
it depends on where you are San
Francisco is different than some place
and back and Beyond but understand that
this is still up 50% from where we were
and people can't afford that there's no
doubt there's no doubt there's no
question and what has happened over this
period of time well there's one very
significant difference and that has been
the amount of money that's been put out
there in circulation when you print you
devalue a lot of the YouTubers I I'm
done uh being nice they will tell you
that there's this massive deflation
coming your way it's a wave of deflation
let me get the clicks let me get the
likes and let me scare you but
understand that deflation isn't scary
it's not threatening there's nothing
that you got to worry about with
deflation it's healthy it's part of that
detox when you're sick when you see an
animal sick in fact what do they do they
just lie there they don't eat they don't
drink they don't do nothing they just
lie there and they wait for that to
basically detox out that's not what the
economy does what do you do you take an
adrenaline shot what do you do when
you're tired you've been up all night
and you've been so stressed out and you
just need some sleep no you need an
espresso shot and then you get real
tired again after oh you have another
one and you have another one those
stimulants they do damage over time
that's what's happening to this economy
we saw that in 2008 we saw that of
course in 2020 the biggest surge of
money ever before in 2020 and what do
they do they pour gasoline on that fire
with every action they've taken ever
since they are going to do it again you
tell those YouTubers where to go I'm
done I'm done with that the clearest
sign yet that commercial real estate is
in trouble you got to understand that
there are problems there's no doubt
about that but those problems are met
with the devaluation of currency and
it's coming there are problems of number
one being in commercial real estate but
we should have had a commercial real
estate crisis sending office and you
know with when we look at retail as well
like the malls and things I mean that
has been that's bigger than a problem I
mean my goodness there's so many empty
there's so many places that do not have
tenants all across the board Fifth
Avenue like like nice places or what
used to be nice places this is one issue
lenders this year have issued a record
number of foreclosure notices for
highrisk property loans many of these
loans are similar to Second mortgages
and commonly known as mezzanine loans
you know what you do when you got an
issue you stack it right on top how does
that
sound that's a mess Meine loan and guess
what they've got some problems right now
today mezanine loans have higher
interest rates offer a faster and easier
path to foreclose and mortgages that's
right and now they're going higher and
higher and higher this has become a
serious problem in fact they say trouble
in the mezzanine number of UCC
foreclosures sale notices for commercial
property loans look we're just at the
beginning but comparing this to 2008
we've surpassed that that this wasn't
the big thing back then right commercial
real estate didn't really suffer in the
same way that residential real estate
did obviously the subprime loans all
that ninja loans uh but you could see
that this has become an issue here
what's happening you don't have the
tenants you have way too much retail you
have problems with interest rates
because their interest rates at this
time are high they're using short-term
debt they don't have the long-term debt
and this does not show up in the
traditional financing like they're not
mortgages so that won't end up on all
the stats with mezzanine loans because
they're more of like a loan rather than
a mortgage so this is not going to show
up there that's why we're digging into
the truth that's why you get this right
here oh but it gets worse that's right
the money has stopped flowing into
commercial real estate declining
construction loans have been
particularly severe as lenders continue
to cut back I am talking to people all
over the the place looking at
individuals um you know with builders on
the small scale and and even larger that
have basically said we cannot afford the
current level of debt can't happen we're
in trouble we're we're barely me meeting
uh our obligations here on our current
builds because they get these
construction contracts and these things
are shortterm but every time they were
going back to get that it's higher and
higher and higher and higher but the you
know the job is already halfway done you
can't necessarily stop and that becomes
a problem we work files for bankruptcy
amid glut of empty offices so we work as
one of those in one of those positions
where they're holding on to all this
real estate and they can't deal with it
they they got to get rid of it they got
to say we don't want to lease that
anymore we do not want these properties
anymore and so you're going to have a
lot of empty offices which is all today
as a stance already a problem now you're
going to have less they're they're going
to get rid of a lot of those properties
and keep they say they're going to keep
uh the good ones so we'll see how that
ends up but it's not looking good for
commercial real estate left right and
Center clients check your inbox our cmbs
that's commercial mortgage back security
delinquency report is in with some
nuances a large industrial delinquency
blew up the rate for that sector uh and
saying uh delinquency rate moves higher
hits new post 2020 Peak so here we are
seeing that who knows what's going to
happen um it's just small at this time
but I wanted to make it clear that this
is going on because of interest rates
because they don't have the
manufacturing the economy slowing down
and they can't make ends meet in this
way it's just like the average person
struggling too it's all over the place
and some suggest that when we get into
this time you know we are building these
tall buildings were you know 50 stories
100 stories and in these major cities
whether it's Hong Kong or New York and
so on are they full and who's paying the
bills there and this has become a big
concern for a lot of these cities if
you're like you know struggling what's
this guy talking about I know for some
people they haven't read my books before
but just start with the basics and get
Compass it's totally free okay Compass
is available to you the money gps.com
and uh you just go on there get go
through Compass a series of really short
videos and you'll have all the bases
covered in fact you might know but what
about your family members what about
your co-workers if you show them Compass
they're going to have a really good
understanding very simple and it's
totally free the money gps.com interest
rate shock ahead with nearly half of
Canadian mortgages up for Renewal within
2 years can you believe this look in
interest rate shock got now being added
to the list of financial stresses for
many Canadians ready to renew their
fixed mortgages over the next couple
years crazy but up to 300 home 300,000
homeowners have already been hit with
significantly higher payments this is a
problem um in Canada Works different
than in the US you take out a loan
you're not getting that for the whole
2530 year you're only getting that for 3
to 5 years and that's coming due for a
lot of them it's already happened and so
imagine let's say your monthly bill was
it was low because you were getting
interest rates of 2% 3% well now your
rate is let's say 6% your mortgage
payment is going to be significantly
higher and I think what's going to
happen is you're going to stretch these
things out 40 years 50 years the only
way that people are going to be able to
continue to pay that's that's true y
Toronto area buyers are walking away
from deposits on new homes some losing
as much as 300
$100,000 now that my friends well that
would hurt 300,000 saying it's just
impossible I I can't pay it it's
impossible they try to go to friends
they try to get another loan they try to
do a you know personal loan they can't
do it and so they walk away from a lot
of money this is what happens during
these Cycles with 60% of Canadian
mortgages set to come up for Renewal
within the next three years homeowners
are facing a payment shock unless
interest rates come down in a
significant way that's according to
Royal Bank of Canada this is the thing
we are in a case where obviously rates
are too high I talked about this in my
first book 2012 saying hey at some point
they're going to raise interest rates
and it's going to be a big problem and
so what we have here is these really
high rates or at least historically what
people are used to really high rates
putting the pressure on people they
can't pay the payments all right so
eventually this comes due and now they
say okay well I can sell my house I can
you know try to do whatever I can or
maybe my credit card suddenly becomes a
problem so they start pulling money the
equity from their homes they have Equity
there so we see this from many different
Avenues but what's going to
result you know be the result of all
this you might be asking yourself well
okay what does it mean we'll think we
move into a place in which we know
already the central bank has made a very
clear clear that they're not even going
to wait for for inflation to be at 2%
before they cut interest rates it just
has to be on the way to 2% does that
make any sense to you neither doesn't
make any sense to me either okay and so
what they are going to do is they're
going to start cutting interest rates
and they're going to stop their
quantitative tightening program and
they're going to create more inflation
you have to understand this they are not
going to wait for the bottom of this you
know we're going to oh we got to wait
for 2% before we start printing money
again before we start cutting interest
rates again before we create the next
round of of
inflation do not get sold on the LIE
they are going to devalue how do I know
this back in 2002 Ben banki as the
governor back then wrote a speech it's
called deflation making sure it doesn't
happen here and guess what what did they
do what did they say in that speech
number one they talked about a
devaluation of the US currency at 40%
referring to what happened in
1933 saying that hey it did the trick
they will do this again and again and
again they don't care if you think that
they care about inflation no they love
inflation this is the tool that they use
to create a divide in between the rich
and the poor don't wait for a specific
opportunity the opportunity of a
lifetime don't get sold on all the
nonsense you need know that you are
being swindled right now don't get
sucked into it
please meet the ultra commuters Who
start their day at 5:00 a.m. it costs
them time and thousands of dollars but
they say it makes them better at their
jobs and happier I can't believe this
you got to move out an extra hour out of
town you used to live let's say 20
minutes yeah I can't do it anymore I
gotta go okay now I'm going to live an
hour and a half out are you really
happier I mean maybe maybe but nobody's
happy in TR traffic I could tell you
that but that's what the article
suggests yeah it's
fantastic ghost Town's federal office
buildings are 80% vacant government
audit finds I talked about this in a
recent video but I'm just trying to show
you it's everywhere everywhere this is a
problem commercial real estate office
everywhere residential has its own
issues certainly but uh that seems to be
not the the focus for many anyway at
this time if you want a cfp if you want
a fiduciary to look at your situation
and give you um their financial advice
and and do that for free okay I have
actually partnered with money pickle so
that you can get this okay all you got
to do is click the link in the
description it brings you to the little
landing page and right there you just
click where your time that you want to
be able to you know schedule that with
what works for you and it's fantastic
because I've been getting great feedback
on it it's totally free and that's the
kind of thing that would help out a lot
of people and that's why I'm I'm happy
to do that okay link is in the
description all right comment of the day
says thank you very much by the way fed
one if it ain't broke don't fix it fed
two hm let me get my sledgehammer okay
this is where we're at today this is the
kind of thing that they do over and over
again we go through these Cycles so we
got to be prepared for inflation if
deflation happens hey let's sell
celebrate I'll be the first to pop the
champagne nonalcoholic all right but
looking at this you got to realize they
go for inflation so be prepared for that
take action on that and don't sit there
with your arms crossed you're going to
get slaughtered don't be one of those if
you need help you come to me directly
and I will help you all right please
give me a thumbs up on this video if you
support the channel and as always you
got to come back type in you're not
going to see that in your feed you got
to type in the money GPS so that you can
see me tomorrow take care